I guess I just had a thought, I kind of
answered it for myself here, but we put in
those DevTools, we put in the React and
the TanStack DevTools, and I was curious.
My question to myself was, hey,
can I inspect that call just there?
And I absolutely can, but I'm wondering
if, I guess maybe this is general for
now or later, if there are any common
uses you have of those DevTools,
kind of think that we put them in there,
and I haven't really touched them since.
>> Brian Holt: Yep, to get point here
you can click the TanStack Query,
DevTools down here, you see both
quarries and mutation up here,
you can see our query,
mutation right there.
This is just helpful for me to see,
did it happen and what data got sent?
That's 95% of my question.
The other thing I could definitely
just look at the network tab right?
And see what happened there but
it's nice that it's here.
I can see everything,
what happened, what came back,
how many things are subscribed to it,
what kind of event triggered it?
All that kind of stuff.
So do I need to see,
is it cancelable all the time?
No, probably not or probably never is
probably closer to what I would say,
but it's cool that it's there.
>> Male Student 2: When
there are input validations,
should we be using uncontrolled forms?
>> Brian Holt: Not necessarily it
depends on how you wanna do it.
So, first of all, the browser
already has some built into it.
So if I just do this, it's gonna say,
please enter an email address.
That's from Firefox, right?
That's not from anything.
That's just from Firefox saying
this isn't at least remotely
approaching a valid email address.
It's pretty loose, right?
So it will still allow some
pretty weird things through.
It probably will let that go,
it did, right?
And that's not about,
obviously not a valid email address.
But if you were trying to do
a valid date of birth, right?
And you wanna make sure that it's
within the past 150 years, or
something like that.
I still probably would do
that on submit and why?
It's a huge pet peeve of mine.
If I started typing my birthday,
which is 05 and then it turns red and
it's enter a valid birthday.
It's I'm not done yet.
[LAUGH] Stop telling me that I don't
have a valid, I'm working on it.
And so that's why I don't like using
a controlled input because it would
immediately show you that
something is wrong, right?
When in reality,
you wanna show them at the end.
It's no, actually, you have to be
born within past 150 years for
this to be valid, you would do that
on submit, not on key down, right?
So still I would do uncontrolled for
that and
then just do it on the submit
where I would do that.
>> Brian Holt: I don't know,
there's probably other reasons as well.
>> Male Student 3: In my page,
it has fields which has dependencies on
other fields for instance, state and city.
For that, should we use controlled forms?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
that's a really good place to do it.
So let's say you put zip code, right?
And for example,
in my old zip code in the Seattle,
you could see this that
you live in Seattle, or
you could say you live in Greenwood,
both are technically valid places.
And you would show that,
probably in a drop down.
And you would do that based on zip
code which wouldn't be populated until
they put their zip code in that you
would use a controlled input for that.
>> Brian Holt: I'm not
telling you do great,
terrible things to avoid
using controlled inputs.
But just mostly that they're not necessary
for things of this nature, right?
Where this is pretty extremely
normal-looking form, right?
And therefore, it's very valid to just not
have to do anything controlled about it.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, again,
we didn't hit any errors, but
let's say that we hit a 500 or
was it 437 I am a teapot error, right?
Something like that but inside of
postContact, if this response was
not okay, which is basically
anything that's under 400, right?
It would throw the error here.
And then inside of contact,
we would get a flag here from TanStack
query and you could do something if,
where's a mutation.isError.
And you can see there's a bunch of them,
isPending, isPaused, isIdle, isSuccess,
blah, blah, but if error,
you can just, return something again,
very customer friendly,
lol no, something like that, right?
And that's how you'd handle
errors in their posts, yeah Marc?
>> Marc: Is there a case where you
use both uncontrolled forms, but
a controlled input?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, I mean, you can
kind of see that I do that in order.
>> Brian Holt: So if you look here,
we have this whole form.
But I'm handling all of
the data on submit, and
then where am I taking that data?
So this is setCard.
So I guess I'm just doing this directly
with the things that I have set in state.
But there's no reason that
I couldn't have just done
something like const
formData = new FormData, right?
And done it the exact same way.
Both are fine, at this point, you're kind
of splitting hairs of what's controlled
and what's uncontrolled, and really the
answer is it doesn't really matter, right?
Just write the code that looks the best.
But sure, yeah,
you're gonna have things where some
of the inputs will be controlled.
Some of them will not be controlled, and
you'll get it all off the form
data that would make sense to me.
It's not a binary thing, where either
it's all controlled or all uncontrolled.
You can do both.